document the changes in p.a.multilingual regarding translation services and Google Translate. (#2003)
plone/documentation: docs/i18n-l10n/use-an-external-translation-service.md

When translating content items in Plone, you can connect to an external translation service to translate your content.

> T

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The `plone.app.multilingual` product that turns Plone into a multilingual-content site supports a pluggable way to hook any translation service into Plone.

> To do so, one has to implement a utility that implements a `IExternalTranslationService` interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, one has to implement a utility that implements an `IExternalTranslationService` interface.
```

This utility class must implement the `IExternalTranslationService` interface from `plone.app.multilingual.interfaces` and it should provide at least these methods and an attribute:

    - `is_available()`: Returns True if the service is enabled and ready.
    - `available_languages()`: Returns a list of supported language codes or pairs that can be used (source, target).
    - `translate_content(content, source_language, target_language)`: Performs the translation and returns the translated text.

>     - `order`: the order in which this utility will be executed. This way, one can prioritize some services over others in given conditions.

Reviewer: Indentation of the list turns it into a quotation. We also want a definition list.

```suggestion
`is_available()`
:   Returns `True` if the service is enabled and ready.

`available_languages()`
:   Returns a list of supported language codes or pairs that can be used (source, target).

`translate_content(content, source_language, target_language)`
:   Performs the translation and returns the translated text.

`order`
:   The order in which this utility will be executed.
    This way, one can prioritize some services over others with given conditions.
```

After doing so, as a content editor, when you edit a translation of a given content page, an icon will display next to the original content.

When you click this icon, it will invoke the translation utility, and the translation obtained through the service will be entered automatically in the corresponding field.

Plone does not implement by itself this interface in any of its utilities.

> You will need to use an external package that offers this service (see the next section) or create your own utility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll need to use an external package that offers this service as described in {ref}`pre-configured-services-label`, or create your own utility.
```

> ## Using the translation service with pre-configured services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(pre-configured-services-label)=

## Using the translation service with pre-configured services
```

> To easily use some external tools, the Plone community has implemented a package called [collective.translators](https://github.com/collective/collective.translators) that implements this functionality for Google Translate, Deepl, Deepseek, Ollama and Libre Translate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use some external tools, the Plone community has implemented a package called [`collective.translators`](https://github.com/collective/collective.translators) that implements this functionality for Google Translate, Deepl, Deepseek, Ollama, and Libre Translate.
```

> Each of those services provides a control panel to tweak the configuration (API keys, languages, service endpoints, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of those services provides a control panel to tweak the configuration, including API keys, languages, service endpoints, and other configuration items.
```

When translating content items in Plone, you can connect to an external translation service to translate your content.

> The `plone.app.multilingual` product that turns Plone into a multilingual-content site supports a pluggable way to hook any translation service into Plone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `plone.app.multilingual` product that turns Plone into a multilingual content site supports a pluggable way to hook any translation service into Plone.
```

To do so, one has to implement a utility that implements an `IExternalTranslationService` interface.

This utility class must implement the `IExternalTranslationService` interface from `plone.app.multilingual.interfaces` and it should provide at least these methods and an attribute:

`is_available()`
:   Returns `True` if the service is enabled and ready.

`available_languages()`
:   Returns a list of supported language codes or pairs that can be used (source, target).

`translate_content(content, source_language, target_language)`
:   Performs the translation and returns the translated text.

`order`
:   The order in which this utility will be executed.
    This way, one can prioritize some services over others with given conditions.

> After doing so, as a content editor, when you edit a translation of a given content page, an icon will display next to the original content.

Reviewer: Is this the [translate icon](https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/translate/)? If so, let's add it inline with this markup.

```suggestion
After doing so, as a content editor, when you edit a translation of a given content page, a translate icon <img alt="Translate icon" src="/_images/translate.svg" class="inline"> will display next to the original content.
```

I'll also commit `translate.svg` to the static resources.

Author: The icon is this one: https://github.com/plone/plone.app.multilingual/blob/master/src/plone/app/multilingual/browser/images/gtranslate.png

Perhaps I should change it with the one you say.

Reviewer: Yeah, making it generic in p.a.m. would be a good idea!

Author: I have replaced the google translate icon with the one coming from Bootstrap, and removed the gtranslate icon from p.a.multilingual

When you click this icon, it will invoke the translation utility, and the translation obtained through the service will be entered automatically in the corresponding field.

> Plone does not implement by itself this interface in any of its utilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plone does not implement this interface by itself in any of its utilities.
```

> After doing so, as a content editor, when you edit a translation of a given content page, a translate icon <img alt="Translate icon" src="/_images/translate.svg" class="inline"> will display next to the original content.

Reviewer: I forgot, Sphinx only renders the correct image `src` attribute when the path is relative to the page, not the site.

```suggestion
After doing so, as a content editor, when you edit a translation of a given content page, a translate icon <img alt="Translate icon" src="../_images/translate.svg" class="inline"> will display next to the original content.
```

> After doing so, as a content editor, when you edit a translation of a given content page, a translate icon <img alt="Translate icon" src="../_images/translate.svg" class="inline"> will display next to the original content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After doing so, as a content editor, when you edit a translation of a given content page, a translate icon <img alt="Translate icon" src="../_static/translate.svg" class="inline"> will display next to the original content.
```

You'll need to use an external package that offers this service as described in {ref}`pre-configured-services-label`, or create your own utility.

(pre-configured-services-label)=

## Using the translation service with pre-configured services

> To use some external tools, the Plone community has implemented a package called [`collective.translators`](https://github.com/collective/collective.translators) that implements this functionality for Google Translate, Deepl, Deepseek, Ollama, and Libre Translate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use some external tools, the Plone community has implemented a package called [`collective.translators`](https://github.com/collective/collective.translators) that implements this functionality for AWS, Deepl, Deepseek, Google Translate, Libre Translate, and Ollama.
```
